---\ntitle: Add an Odigo integration\ndescription: Learn how to connect your Odigo ACD to injixo to import data.\nproduct_label:\n  - advanced\n  - enterprise\nrelated_articles:\n  - overwrite_title: Add title for untranslated source\n    filepath: features/acd-integration/cloud/how-integrations-work.md\n  - overwrite_title: Add title for untranslated source\n    filepath: features/acd-integration/cloud/add-cloud-integration.md\n  - overwrite_title: Add title for untranslated source\n    filepath: features/acd-integration/cloud/import-agent-status-data.md\n---\n\nThe Odigo integration imports real-time agent status and real-time adherence data.\n\nNew to integrations? Learn {% link_new the basics | features/acd-integration/cloud/how-integrations-work.md %} first.\n\n## Add an Odigo integration\n\n1. Go to _Account > Integrations_{:.breadcrumbs}.\n2. If there already is an integration, click _Add integration_{:.doc-button}.\n3. In the **Odigo** tile, click _Add integration_{:.doc-button}.\n4. Enter a unique name for the new integration that identifies the data source.\n5. (Optional) Configure the import of detailed break agent statuses:\n- Check the checkbox **Import detailed break agent statuses**.<br>When importing break statuses, injixo will include information about the type of break taken.<br>Note: If you check this checkbox, you also need to update the {% link_new activity mapping | features/acd-integration/cloud/import-agent-status-data.md | #remap-external-system-activities %}.\n- Enter your Odigo URL including the tenant ID.\n- Enter the username and password for the web service.\n6. Click _Save integration_{:.doc-button}.\n\n## Configure your Odigo integration\n\n1. In the **Generate injixo URL token** section, click _Generate_{:.doc-button}.\n2. Copy the injixo URL token to your clipboard.<br>\nThe injixo URL token is only shown once. If you cannot finish your setup right away, store it in a safe place, e.g. into a password manager.\n3. In the Administration section of your Odigo interface, activate sending notifications to an external server. To do this, contact Odigo.\n4. Paste the copied **injixo URL token** as notification URL.\n5. Save your settings in Odigo and go back to injixo.\n\nTo activate the integration, you need to restart the server. To do this, contact Odigo.<br>\ninjixo will then start importing RTA data, but the data will only be visible after you have mapped external user identifiers to your people.\n\n## Map external users to your people\n\n1. Go to _WFM > Administration > Scheduling > Employees_{:.breadcrumbs}.\n2. Assign external user identifiers to your people.\n\nLearn more about {% link_new mapping external user identifiers | features/acd-integration/cloud/import-agent-status-data.md | #map-external-user-identifiers-to-people-in-injixo %} to people.\n\n## Map agent statuses to injixo activities\n\n1. Go to _WFM > Administration > Scheduling > Activities_{:.breadcrumbs}.\n2. Assign Odigo activities to injixo activities.\n\nLearn more about {% link_new mapping external activities | features/acd-integration/cloud/import-agent-status-data.md | #remap-external-system-activities %} to injixo activities.\n