---\ntitle: Add a Freshdesk integration\ndescription: Learn how to connect your Freshdesk CRM to injixo to import data.\nproduct_label:\n  - advanced\n  - enterprise\nrelated_articles:\n  - overwrite_title: Add title for untranslated source\n    filepath: features/acd-integration/cloud/how-integrations-work.md\n  - overwrite_title: Add title for untranslated source\n    filepath: features/acd-integration/cloud/add-cloud-integration.md\n---\n\nA Freshdesk integration is a cloud integration that imports contact volumes for email, web forms, chat, and social messaging.\n\nNew to integrations? Learn {% link_new the basics | features/acd-integration/cloud/how-integrations-work.md %} first.\n\n## Add a Freshdesk integration\n\n1. Go to _Account > Integrations_{:.breadcrumbs}.\n2. If there already is an integration, click _Add integration_{:.doc-button}.\n3. In the **Freshworks** tile, click _Select model_{:.doc-button}.\n4. In the **Freshdesk** section, click _Add integration_{:.doc-button}.\n\n## Set up your Freshdesk integration\n\n1. Enter a unique name for the new integration that identifies the data source.\n2. In the **Credentials** section, enter your full Freshdesk domain name including the subdomain, e.g. example.freshdesk.com.\n3. Go to Freshdesk and copy a valid API key of a user with the Account Administrator role.\n4. Go back to injixo and paste the API key in the **API key** field.\n5. Click _Save integration_{:.doc-button}. \n\n## Install the injixo app\n\nThe Freshdesk integration requires a client application. After you have saved your configuration, you can access the **Install the injixo app** section at the bottom of the page.\n\nTo generate and copy the **injixo API key**, click _Generate_{:.doc-button}.\n\nTo set up the injixo app in your Freshdesk account, follow the on-screen instructions. For more information, refer to the [Freshworks marketplace](https://www.freshworks.com/apps/freshdesk/injixo_connect).\n\n## Freshdesk data in injixo\n\ninjixo imports all ticket data from Freshdesk. Tickets usually contain multiple conversations that take place between your team members and customers.<br>\nNote: injixo cannot import ticket durations from Freshdesk. This is why you won't see the AHT graph for workloads with Freshdesk queues in injixo Forecast.\n\n### Tickets and conversations\n\nIn injixo, all conversations are grouped by the Freshdesk communication channel (Source). A conversation can be a new ticket or a reply to an existing ticket.\n\nIn injixo, the conversations in a Freshdesk ticket are counted separately as an offered contact.\n\nExample: A user creates a ticket by e-mail. The team member replies and closes the ticket. Two days later, the ticket is reopened due to another email, which leads to a new conversation.\n\nThe number of offered contacts in injixo will usually be higher than the number of tickets reported in Freshdesk.\n\n### Events from different sources\n\nIn a Freshdesk ticket, replies can be tracked in different injixo queues using the channel Cases.\n\nExample: When there is an email reply to a ticket, you will see the contact in an injixo queue that matches the Freshdesk group and source name. A chat in the same ticket will be counted in a separate queue.\n\n### Source queue naming convention\n\ninjixo creates source queues from your tickets. The naming convention of these queues depends on the stage of the data import (initial or continuous). During this initial import, the source queue naming will follow this convention:\n\n- "group name + source name + Tickets"\n- "group name + source name + Replies"\n\nExamples:\n\n- CustomerService chat Tickets\n- CustomerService email Replies\n- Unknown group/source Tickets\n\nA new ticket will create a ticket queue. A reply to a ticket will create a replies queue that will also record any other replies. To get all information about a ticket, you need to look at both the ticket and the replies queue.\n\n### Deleted tickets and spam tickets\n\nThe group name and source name cannot be determined when a ticket is changed that has already been deleted or marked as spam. The source queues that count such tickets will be labeled Unknown group/source Tickets or Unknown group/source Replies. Typically, these queues are irrelevant for scheduling your agents' workload.\n