---\ntitle: Add a Genesys Cloud integration\ndescription: Learn how to connect your Genesys Cloud CRM to injixo to import data.\nproduct_label:\n  - advanced\n  - enterprise\nrelated_articles:\n  - overwrite_title: Add title for untranslated source\n    filepath: features/acd-integration/cloud/how-integrations-work.md\n  - overwrite_title: Add title for untranslated source\n    filepath: features/acd-integration/cloud/add-cloud-integration.md\n---\n\nA Genesys Cloud integration is a cloud integration that imports call, email and chat history as well as agent status and real-time adherence data.\n\nNew to integrations? Learn {% link_new the basics | features/acd-integration/cloud/how-integrations-work.md %} first.\n\n## Add a Genesys Cloud integration\n\n1. Go to _Account > Integrations_{:.breadcrumbs}.\n2. If there already is an integration, click _Add integration_{:.doc-button}.\n3. In the **Genesys** tile, click _Select model_{:.doc-button}.\n4. In the **Genesys Cloud** section, click _Add integration_{:.doc-button}.\n\n## Set up your Genesys Cloud integration\n\n1. Enter a unique name for the new integration that identifies the data source.\n2. In the **API credentials** section, copy and paste your Genesys Cloud API key and API secret.\n3. In the **Configuration** section, select your account region.\n4. (Optional) Check the checkbox **Import detailed on-queue agent statuses**.<br>The agent status on-queue includes several statuses, e.g. communication, interacting, idle, not responding. When importing agent statuses, injixo will differentiate between the individual statuses summarized under on-queue.\n5. Click _Save integration_{:.doc-button}.\n