---\ntitle: Add a Five9 integration\ndescription: Connect your Five9 ACD to injixo and prepare a custom report to use queue grouping by skills.\nproduct_label:\n  - essential\n  - advanced\n  - enterprise\n  - classic\nredirect_from: /five9-grouping-by-skills/\nredirect_reason: renamed file in Feb 2021\nrelated_articles:\n  - overwrite_title: Add title for untranslated source\n    filepath: features/acd-integration/cloud/how-integrations-work.md\n  - overwrite_title: Add title for untranslated source\n    filepath: features/acd-integration/cloud/add-cloud-integration.md\n---\n\nA Five9 integration is a cloud integration that imports calls, agent status data and real-time adherence.\n\nNew to integrations? Learn {% link_new the basics | features/acd-integration/cloud/how-integrations-work.md %} first.\n\n## Prerequisites\n\nIf you are grouping your queues by campaign, the integration reads the standard call log report from Five9.\n\nIf you are grouping your queues by skill, the integration needs a custom call log report from Five9 that includes skills. To import data from queues grouped by skills, follow the steps below in Five9:\n\n 1. Create a new shared report folder.\n 2. Customize the standard call log report by including the "SKILL" column.\n 3. Save the customized report as "Call Log with Skills" in the shared folder.\n\nFor more detailed information on how to customize reports, refer to the Five9 Help Center.\n\n## Add your Five9 integration\n\n1. Go to _Account > Integrations_{:.breadcrumbs}.\n2. If there already is an integration, click _Add integration_{:.doc-button}.\n3. In the **Five9** tile, click _Add integration_{:.doc-button}.\n4. Enter a unique name for the new integration that identifies the data source.\n5. Enter the username and password for a person with admin access in your Five9 account.\n6. In the **Configuration** section, select your account region and grouping option.\n7. Click _Save integration_{:.doc-button}.\n\nThe integration now imports data into injixo. The initial import can take up to 15 minutes. All queues from the connected system will automatically be available for the mapping on the {% link_new workload configuration screen | features/forecast/injixo-forecast/manage-workloads.md | #create-workloads %} in injixo Forecast.\n\n## What happens in the event of parallel agent states?\n\nSometimes, Five9 reports multiple states for an agent for the same time, for example:\n\n| State   | Start time | End time |\n| ------- | ---------- | -------- |\n| Ready   | 13:00:00   | 13:00:05 |\n| Inbound | 13:00:00   | 13:03:00 |\n\nTo avoid that one state overwrites the other, the integration changes the beginning of the longer state. The beginning of the longer state becomes the end of the shorter one:\n\n| State   | Start time | End time |\n| ------- | ---------- | -------- |\n| Ready   | 13:00:00   | 13:00:05 |\n| Inbound | 13:00:05   | 13:03:00 |\n