---\ntitle: Configure employee filters\ndescription: Use the employee filter editor to filter employees using a combination of criteria.\nproduct_label:\n  - advanced\n  - enterprise\n  - classic\n---\n\nWith employee filters, you can create lists of employees who match several criteria. The editing options depend on your user rights.\n\nEmployee filters work similarly to {% link_new selections | features/administration/selections.md %}. The difference between them is:\n\n- For employee filters, the grouping criteria are based on configuration elements, e.g. planning unit, skill, and contract.\n- For selections, you can create your own grouping criteria.\n\nEmployee filters are available only in injixo Classic, Advanced, and Enterprise.\n  \n1. To access the filter editor, go to _Plan > Shift Center_{:.breadcrumbs}.\n2. If the Selection tile {% icon selection-filter-s | icon-only %} is selected: Select the Employee tile {% icon schedules-filter-employees-u | icon-only %}.\n3. Click the **Filter editor** link.\n\n## Create a filter\n\n1. In the **Employee Filter** section, click the Create filter icon {% icon item-add | icon-only %}.\n2. Select a **Time Period Type**:<br>\n    - **User-Defined**: Specify the time period manually using the date picker. Select a **From** and **To** date.<br>\n    - **Relative**: Specify a period for the next, current or previous week, month or year.<br>\n    - **Context-Defined**: The date period is automatically set to the current day.\n3. Create a [**Query**](#create-a-query).\n4. To show the query results, click _Display_{:.doc-button}.\n5. To add the query to the employee filter, click _Apply_{:.doc-button}.\n6. To save the filter, click the {% icon save %}.<br>To save an existing filter under a different name, click the {% icon saveas %}.\n\n## Create a query\n\nA query is a set of conditions to filter and retrieve data from a larger dataset. You can define criteria and retrieve a list of employees who meet those criteria.\n\n1. In the **Query** section, click the {% icon item-add %}.\n2. In the first drop-down menu, select a configuration data type.\n3. In the second drop-down menu, select a condition.\n4. (Optional) Select a [priority and relational operators](#use-priority-and-relational-operators) for planning units, employee categories or skills.\n5. Click _Apply_{:.doc-button}.\n\nTo edit a query, click {% icon item-edit %}.\n\n## Use conditions\n\n### IS IN\n\nThe **IS IN** condition shows results that match the query exactly.\n \n1. Select a configuration data type from the first drop-down menu.\n2. Select **IS IN** from the second drop-down menu.\n3. Click _Criteria_{:.doc-button} to see the available criteria and select one from the list.\n4. To add criteria to your selection, click the {% icon right-arrow-blue %}.\n5. In the **Select criteria** window, click _Apply_{:.doc-button}.\n6. (Optional) Select [options and relational operators](#use-priority-and-relational-operators) for planning units, employee categories or skills.\n7. Click _Apply_{:.doc-button}.\n\n### IS LIKE\n\nThe **IS LIKE** condition shows results that match the query partially.\n\n1. Select a configuration data type from the first drop-down menu.\n2. Select **IS LIKE** from the second drop-down menu.\n3. Enter the text you want to match in the text field.\n    - To replace any number of characters, use the * placeholder.\n    - To replace exactly one character, use the ? placeholder.\n4. (Optional) Select [options and relational operators](#use-priority-and-relational-operators) for planning units, employee categories or skills.\n5. Click _Apply_{:.doc-button}.\n\n## Use priority and relational operators\n\nWith the Priority checkbox and the relational operators, you can include employees based on their priority and assignment to the selected planning unit/employee category:  \n\n1. Select **Planning unit** or **Employee category** from the first drop-down menu.\n2. Check the **Priority** checkbox.\n3. Select a relational operator from the list.\n4. Enter a priority value in the input field.\n\nWith the Skill configuration element, you can use relational operators to include only skilled employees with a certain skill level:  \n\n1. Select **Skill** from the first drop-down menu.\n2. Check the **Skill level** checkbox.\n3. Choose a relational operator from the list.\n4. Enter the value of the skill level in the input field.\n\n## Link queries\n\nYou can link individual queries with each other:\n\n1. Create or select a [filter](#create-a-filter).\n2. Create a [query](#create-a-query).\n3. Select a conditional operator:<br>\n  - **AND**: Include people who meet all the conditions.  \n  - **OR**: Include people who meet at least one of the conditions.  \n  - **NOT**: Exclude people who meet the condition following NOT.\n4. Create a second query.\n5. Click _Apply_{:.doc-button}.\n\nTo create a group, open a parenthesis. To close it, close the parenthesis. Use the up and down arrows to move and sort the individual queries at any time.\n\n## Example query\n\nTo filter people from the New York planning unit who do not have a Full Time 40h contract and are not part of the Extra Hours selection, the query should follow this structure:\n\n\n```\nPlanning Unit IS IN "New York"\nAND\nNOT\n(\nContract IS IN "Full Time 40h"\nAND\nSelection IS IN "Extra Hours"\n)\n```\n\nThis query selects all people from the New York planning unit and then excludes people who have a Full Time 40h contract and are in the Extra Hours selection:\n\n- **IS IN** defines the condition for the planning unit.\n- **AND** combines the query's conditions.\n- **NOT** excludes the following conditions.\n- The parentheses open and close the group of conditions to exclude.\n- **IS IN** selects people who have a Full Time 40h contract.\n- **AND** combines the conditions within the parentheses.\n- **IS IN** selects people who are part of the Extra Hours selection.\n\n## Edit filters\n\n1. In the **Employee filter** drop-down menu, select a filter.\n2. Edit the information you want to change.\n3. (Optional) To rename your filter, click the {% icon item-edit %}.\n4. To save, click the {% icon save %}.<br>To save an existing filter under a different name, click the {% icon saveas %}.\n