---\ntitle: Manage 2FA\nproduct_label:\n  - essential\n  - advanced\n  - enterprise\ndescription: Learn how to activate and deactivate 2FA for your employees' accounts.\nredirect_from:\n  - /2fa/\nredirect_reason: Updated filename on 14 July 2023\n---\n\n> Only users with admin access can manage two-factor authentication (2FA) for other users.\n\n## See other users' 2FA settings\n\nTo see other users' current 2FA status, proceed as follows:\n1. Go to _Account > Users_{:.breadcrumbs}.\n2. In the **2FA** column on the right, a shield icon indicates the 2FA status for each user. Hover over it to see more information.\n  - Red icon {% icon 2FA-red | icon-only %}: 2FA is not active.\n  - Orange icon with exclamation mark {% icon 2FA-orange | icon-only %}: 2FA was enforced for the user. The user has to activate 2FA upon next login.\n  - Green icon with checkmark {% icon 2FA-green | icon-only %}: 2FA is active.\n\n## Enforce 2FA activation for other users\nYou can make other users activate 2FA. Enforcing 2FA for other users has the following consequences:\n\n- Users will not able to log in if they don't activate 2FA.\n- Users will not be able to deactivate 2FA for their personal accounts anymore.\n\nBefore you enforce 2FA for other users, make sure that they have access to one of the {% link_new supported authenticator apps | getting-started/use-two-factor-authentication.md | #prerequisite-install-an-authenticator-app %}.\n\n### Enforce 2FA activation for individual users\n\n1. Go to _Account > Users_{:.breadcrumbs}.\n2. Click the **name** of the user for whom you want to enforce 2FA activation.  \n   The page with the user's details opens.\n3. In the **Security** section, check the **Enforce 2FA activation** checkbox.\n4. Click _Save_{:.doc-button} to confirm the activation.\n\n### Enforce 2FA activation for all users\n\n1. Go to _Account > Security_{:.breadcrumbs}. On this page, you can see the current distribution of 2FA among your users.\n2. Click _Enforce 2FA for all users_{:.doc-button}.  \n   You will see a green success message. The button text will change to _Revoke enforcement_{:.doc-button}.\n\n### Deactivate 2FA for individual users\n\nIn some cases, you may want to deactivate 2FA temporarily for individual users, or exclude some users from 2FA enforcement.\n\n1. Go to _Account > Users_{:.breadcrumbs}.\n2. Click the **name** of the user for whom you want to deactivate 2FA.  \n   The page with the user's details opens.\n3. In the **Security** section, uncheck the **Enforce 2FA activation** checkbox.\n4. Click _Save_{:.doc-button} to confirm the deactivation.\n