---\ntitle: Add a Freshdesk Contact Center integration\ndescription: Learn how to connect your Freshdesk Contact Center CRM to injixo to import data.\nproduct_label:\n  - advanced\n  - enterprise\nrelated_articles:\n  - overwrite_title: Add title for untranslated source\n    filepath: features/acd-integration/cloud/how-integrations-work.md\n  - overwrite_title: Add title for untranslated source\n    filepath: features/acd-integration/cloud/add-cloud-integration.md\n  - overwrite_title: Add title for untranslated source\n    filepath: features/acd-integration/cloud/import-agent-status-data.md\n---\n\nA Freshdesk Contact Center integration is a cloud integration that imports call history and real-time adherence data.\n\nNew to integrations? Learn {% link_new the basics | features/acd-integration/cloud/how-integrations-work.md %} first.\n\n## Add a Freshdesk Contact Center integration \n\nTo add a new Freshdesk Contact Center integration in injixo, you need to have a Pro or Enterprise Freshdesk Contact Center account.\n\n1. Go to _Account > Integrations_{:.breadcrumbs}.\n2. If there already is an integration, click _Add integration_{:.doc-button}.\n3. In the **Freshworks** tile, click _Select model_{:.doc-button}.\n4. In the **Freshdesk Contact Center** section, click _Add integration_{:.doc-button}.\n\n## Set up your Freshdesk Contact Center integration\n\n1. Enter a unique name for the new integration that identifies the data source.\n2. In the **Credentials** section, enter your Freshdesk Contact Center domain name (including the subdomain), e.g. example.freshcaller.com.\n3. Go to Freshdesk Contact Center and copy a valid API key of a user with the Account Administrator.\n4. Go back to injixo and paste the API key in the **API key** field.\n5. Select the [grouping strategy for imported queues](#queue-names-by-grouping-strategy).\n6. Click _Save integration_{:.doc-button}. \n\nAfter you have saved the configuration, proceed in the **Install the injixo app** section on the page.\n\n## Install the injixo app\n\n1. In the **Install the injixo app** section, generate and copy the **injixo API key**.\n2. Set up the required injixo app in your Freshdesk account in the [Freshworks marketplace](https://www.freshworks.com/apps/freshcaller/injixo_1/).\n3. In the injixo app installation page, paste the copied API key.\n4. To import data in real time, check the **Export real-time agent status data** checkbox in the injixo app installation page of the Freshworks marketplace.\n\n## Queue names by grouping strategy\n\nWhen importing data, the grouping strategy affects the names of the queues that are created in injixo:\n\n| Grouping strategy   | Queue name                               | Example           |\n| ------------------- | ---------------------------------------- | ----------------- |\n| Phone number        | Phone number                             | +49123456789      |\n| Routing (team/agent) | Team name                                | Tech Support Team |\n| Routing (team/agent) | Agent name (if no team name is assigned) | Agent 1           |\n\nFor calls that have no group in Freshdesk Contact Center, the queue name is Undefined_Queue.\n