---\ntitle: Add a Genesys Engage integration\nproduct_label:\n  - essential\n  - advanced\n  - enterprise\n  - classic\ndescription: Learn how to connect your Genesys Engage CMS to injixo to import data.\nrelated_articles:\n  - overwrite_title: Add title for untranslated source\n    filepath: features/acd-integration/cloud/how-integrations-work.md\n  - overwrite_title: Add title for untranslated source\n    filepath: features/acd-integration/cloud/install-cloud-link.md\n  - overwrite_title: Add title for untranslated source\n    filepath: features/acd-integration/cloud/import-agent-status-data.md\n---\n\nA Genesys Engage integration is an on-premise integration that imports call history and agent status data.\n\nThe integration uses {% link_new injixo Cloud Link | features/acd-integration/cloud/install-cloud-link.md %}.\n\nNew to integrations? Learn {% link_new the basics | features/acd-integration/cloud/how-integrations-work.md %} first.\n\n## Add a Genesys Engage integration\n\n1. Go to _Account > Integrations_{:.breadcrumbs}.\n2. If there already is an integration, click _Add integration_{:.doc-button}.\n3. In the **Genesys** tile, click _Select model_{:.doc-button}.\n4. In the **Genesys Engage** section, click _Add integration_{:.doc-button}.\n\n## Set up your new Genesys Engage integration\n\n1. Enter a unique name for the new integration that identifies the data source.\n2. Install and connect {% link_new injixo Cloud Link | features/acd-integration/cloud/install-cloud-link.md %}.\n3. In the **Database credentials** section, set up your integration:\n - Select your database adapter.\n - Enter your database host and port.\n - Enter your database username and password.\n - Enter the name of the ETL database.\n - Enter the name of the configuration database.\n4. If you want to import agent status data, check the checkbox **Import agent status data** in the **Configuration** section.<br>\nNote: To successfully import agent status data, you first need to {% link_new map external user identifiers and activities | features/acd-integration/cloud/import-agent-status-data.md | #map-external-user-identifiers-to-people-in-injixo %}.\n5. Click _Save integration_{:.doc-button}.\n\nThe integration starts importing data into injixo. \n\n## Edit a Genesys Engage integration\n\nIf integration details change, e.g. database server credentials, you can edit and update the configuration of your integration. The data import will continue using the updated configuration.\n