---\ntitle: Add a cloud integration\nproduct_label:\n  - essential\n  - advanced\n  - enterprise\n  - classic\ntoc: false\ndescription: Connect your cloud ACD to injixo to import data.\nrelated_articles:\n  - overwrite_title: Add title for untranslated source\n    filepath: features/acd-integration/cloud/how-integrations-work.md\n  - overwrite_title: Add title for untranslated source\n    filepath: features/acd-integration/cloud/add-five9-integration.md\n  - overwrite_title: Add title for untranslated source\n    filepath: features/acd-integration/cloud/import-agent-status-data.md\n---\n\nNew to integrations? Learn {% link_new the basics | features/acd-integration/cloud/how-integrations-work.md %} first.\n\n## What are cloud integrations?\n\nCloud integrations fetch data directly from a cloud system. injixo supports a variety of cloud integrations.\n\n## Add a cloud integration\n\n1. Go to *Account > Integrations*{:.breadcrumbs}. The page shows all available integrations.\n2. Click *Add integration*{:.doc-button} and enter the required information. In this example, we're setting up the Five9 integration, but the process for setting up other cloud integrations is similar.\n3. Choose a unique name for your integration. The name should reflect the source of the data.\n4. Enter the **username** and **password** for a user that has an administrator role in your Five9 account.\n5. Configure further integration-specific details (i.e. the region of your Five9 account and how you would like to group the queues).\n6. Click _Save_{:.doc-button} to create the integration with the provided information.\n\n{{ 1 | image: 'Five9 integration', '80%' }}\n\nThe integration now imports data into injixo. The initial import can take up to 15 minutes. All queues from the connected system will automatically be available for mapping on the {% link_new workload configuration screen | features/forecast/injixo-forecast/manage-workloads.md | #create-workloads %} in injixo Forecast.\n\nIf your integration supports the import of agent status data, you need to {% link_new map external user identifiers and activities | features/acd-integration/cloud/import-agent-status-data.md %} before agent status data can be imported.\n