---\ntitle: Create and use day types\ndescription: Create day types to represent holidays and other special days that change your business hours.\nproduct_label:\n  - advanced\n  - enterprise\n  - classic\nrelated_articles:\n  - overwrite_title: Add title for untranslated source\n    filepath: features/administration/create-and-manage-planning-units.md\n  - overwrite_title: Add title for untranslated source\n    filepath: features/administration/planning-calendar.md\n  - overwrite_title: Add title for untranslated source\n    filepath: best-practices/scheduling-public-holidays.md\n---\n\nDay types define the days with standard business hours and days with different business hours.\n\nAdd day types to your {% link_new planning unit | features/administration/create-and-manage-planning-units.md | #add-business-hours %} to set business hours for the standard days of the week and for special days, e.g. if your organization is open on holidays. injixo will take into account the defined business hours for those days during schedule optimization.\n\nIn _Plan > Configuration > Day types_{:.breadcrumbs} you can:\n\n- View the default day types.\n- Create, edit, and delete custom day types.\n\n## Create a custom day type\n\nOn some days, your business hours might differ from the standard, e.g. when there are special promotions or holidays. To create custom day types for those days, follow these steps:\n\n1. Click the New icon {% icon item-add | icon-only %} in the action bar.\n2. Enter a **Name** (max. 50 characters).\n3. Enter an **Abbreviation** (max. 25 characters).  \n   The abbreviation will appear in the planning calendar.\n4. (Optional) Check the **Holiday Mode** checkbox.<br>[Learn more](#holiday-mode) about how to configure day types for holidays.\n5. Click _OK_{:.doc-button}.\n\n## Holiday mode\n\n To mark a day type as a holiday, activate the **Holiday Mode** checkbox in the day type configuration window.\n\n### Create day types for national holidays\n\nThere are two ways to create day types for national holidays:\n\n- Create day types with holiday mode and {% link_new add them to your planning calendar | features/administration/planning-calendar.md | #add-custom-day-types-to-the-planning-calendar %}.\n\n- Add a {% link_new calendar template | features/administration/planning-calendar.md |#add-the-national-holidays-of-your-region %} to your planning calendar. This will automatically create all included day types for national holidays with activated holiday mode.\n\nHoliday mode will reduce people's working hours on this day accordingly. If you decide to schedule the day as a normal working day, you can always deactivate the holiday mode by {% link_new editing the day type | features/administration/day-types.md | #edit-a-day-type %}.\n\n## Edit a day type\n\n> Warning\n>\n> If you change the holiday mode of a day type that is currently in use, you must recalculate time accounts or {% link_new target work accounts | features/scheduling/planning-periods/target-work-accounts.md %}.\n   \n1. Select a day type from the list.\n2. Edit the data that you want to change.\n3. Click _OK_{:.doc-button}.\n\n## Delete a day type\n\n> Note\n> \n> Before you delete a day type, {% link_new remove it from all planning calendars | features/administration/planning-calendar.md | #remove-day-types-from-the-planning-calendar %}. You cannot delete default day types.\n\n1. Select a day type from the list.\n2. Click the {% icon item-delete %} in the action bar.\n\n## Day types in scheduling\n\ninjixo considers day types during scheduling. \n- If your planning unit is regularly open on a public holiday, you only need to {% link_new add business hours to the planning unit | features/administration/create-and-manage-planning-units.md | #add-business-hours %}.  \n- If your planning unit is closed on a holiday, or if it is open with special opening hours, read the article {% link_new Schedule public holidays | best-practices/scheduling-public-holidays.md %}.\n