---\ntitle: Set a validity period\ntoc: true\nproduct_label:\n  - essential\n  - advanced\n  - enterprise\n  - classic\ndescription: Use the validity period to limit the time period in which configuration elements are active.\nredirect_from:\n  - /valid-from-to-dates/\nredirect_reason: Updated filename on 12 October 2023\n---\n\nWith validity periods, you can set a configuration for a limited amount of time. You can program configuration changes to automatically occur in the future without further manual input.\n\nValidity periods are always optional. If you do not specify a validity period, the configuration will be effective immediately and will not change until you manually edit it.\n\nValidity periods are available in _WFM > Administration > Scheduling_{:.breadcrumbs}.\n\n## Use validity periods\n\nYou can set a validity period when creating configuration data. \n\nExample: You want one planning unit to temporarily take over the Calls activity to avoid overloading your other planning units. You can add the Calls activity to a second planning unit and define the validity period for this configuration:\n\n1. Go to **Planning units**.\n2. Select the planning unit to which you want to add the activity.\n3. Go to the **Activities** section on the right.\n4. Click the {% icon item-add %}.\n5. Enter a **Valid from** and **Valid to** date. This is the validity period.\n6. Choose the activity and set **From** and **To** hours.\n7. Click _OK_{:.doc-button}.\n\n## Edit a validity period\n\nYou can also edit the validity period for existing configuration data. \n\nExample: You want to extend the contract for a certain person. You can edit the validity period of the person's contract:\n\n1. Go to **Employees**.\n2. Select the employee whose contract you want to extend.\n3. Go to the **Contracts** section on the right.\n4. Click the {% icon item-edit %} next to the contract you want to extend.\n5. Edit the **Valid to** field.\n6. Click _OK_{:.doc-button}.\n