---
title: Use shift requirement
product_label:
  - classic
description: Use a shift requirement to define how many shifts are generated for shift bidding.
related_articles:
  - overwrite_title: Add title for untranslated source
    filepath: features/administration/create-and-manage-planning-units.md
  - overwrite_title: Add title for untranslated source
    filepath: features/administration/daymodels/daymodel-creation.md
  - overwrite_title: Add title for untranslated source
    filepath: features/administration/day-types.md
  - overwrite_title: Add title for untranslated source
    filepath: features/scheduling/employee-requirement.md
  - overwrite_title: Add title for untranslated source
    filepath: features/scheduling/shift-bidding.md
---

In this article, you will learn:

- what shift requirement is and how it is used.
- how you properly enter values in the shift requirement table.
- how you can check the result of the shift generation.

> This article is about _WFM > Scheduling > SchedulePro_{:.breadcrumbs}.
>
> If you are using injixo Advanced WFM or Enterprise WFM, use scheduling periods under _Plan > Schedules_{:.breadcrumbs} for {% link_new shift requirement | features/scheduling/schedules/schedules-shift-requirement.md %} instead.

The shift requirement is required for the {% link_new shift bidding process | features/scheduling/shift-bidding.md %}. Shift requirement specifies the minimum and maximum number of shifts that must or can be generated by the shift generation. The result of the shift generation are the shifts that are available to the employees for their shift requests in _Me_{:.menu-item}.

## Display shift requirements

Check or edit the shift requirements in _WFM > Scheduling > SchedulePro > Shift Requirement_{:.breadcrumbs}.

1. Select a **Planning Unit**.
2. Click **Apply**.

The shift requirement table shows fixed and variable day models. The day models and their activities must be assigned to the selected planning unit to appear in the list.

{{ 1 | image: 'Shift requirement table', '100%' }}

In order to display special events like holidays in additional columns next to the standard weekdays, add further {% link_new day types | features/administration/day-types.md %} to the planning unit.

> Shift requirements for deleted day types or day models
>
> Items that are still assigned to the planning unit are displayed in italics and cannot be changed. Remove the assignment of old day models or day types from the planning unit to remove them from the table.

## Edit shift requirements

1. Select a **Planning Unit**.
2. Edit the **Min/Max values** for one or more day models.
3. Click **Save**.

## Meaning of minimum and maximum values

The individual entries define for each day model and day type how many shifts the shift generation generates as minimum and maximum. The number of employees and their shifts are not considered. injixo only aims for the best possible coverage.

If you do not work with minimum values only, the {% link_new employee requirement | features/scheduling/employee-requirement.md %} is relevant. The number of shifts (up to the entered maximum) will be generated, which are necessary to cover the staff requirements.

## Enter required shifts into the table

Use 0 for minimum and maximum for day models, for which you don't want to generate shifts for, e.g. on days your company is closed or if certain day models should not be used in shift bidding.

Use the same value for minimum and maximum for day models that should always be staffed the same way, regardless of the employee requirements, to create a fixed number of shifts.

For the remaining day models, proceed as follows before each scheduling cycle to determine and enter the correct numbers for each day model:

1. Determine which employees work full time and which part time. Count each employee. Ideally you should have a {% link_new Selection | features/administration/selections.md %} for full-time and part-time employees.
2. Think about how the available day models should be distributed. For example, it might be useful to have more short part-time shifts in the morning and more full-time shifts in the afternoon.
3. Consider how many shifts you want to offer. If you only use the shift request procedure, all employees should be able to request a shift.
4. Deduct any illnesses and other absences from the total number of shifts required.
5. Enter values for minimum and maximum per day model in the table.

> Hints
>
> **Shifts in shift sequences**
>
> If a day model is already used twice in shift sequences and you need at least three more shifts of a day model, increase the value accordingly and enter a value of five as minimum.
>
> **Interpretation of missing entries**
>
> If you don't enter any values in the table, the shift generation will create as many shifts as you like to cover the employee requirement. In injixo Enterprise on-premise, setting _48128_{:.id-label} _Interpretation of missing entries for shift requirements_ defines, whether no (value 0) or any number of shifts (value 1) are generated for empty fields.

## Key figures in Shift Center

The Shift Center shows the generated shifts for each individual day model. You can find the key figure _requirement_ in the parameter window on the worksheet _Day Models_ .

<!-- no image but link in DE -->

{{ 2 | image: 'Shift Center Parameter value', '50%' }}

In addition, you can find further key figures on the worksheet _activities_ by right-clicking in the parameter window:

| Parameter                               | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| --------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Staffing According to Shift Requirement | The key figure indicates how many shifts with the selected activity were generated by shift generation in the displayed time interval to cover the employee requirement for this activity. It shows the quality of a shift generation, because here you can see how the employee requirement would be covered if all generated shifts were staffed. |
| Coverage According to Shift Requirement | The key figure shows the difference between the shifts that are required in the displayed time interval and the shifts actually generated during shift generation.                                                                                                                                                                                  |

## Key figures in dashboards

{% link_new Dashboards | features/monitoring/dashboards/dashboards-overview.md %} shows the following key figures for shifts:

| Parameter                 | Description                                                      |
| ------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Requirement               | Number of required shifts.                                       |
| Staffing                  | Number of actual shifts.                                         |
| Requests                  | Number of requested shifts.                                      |
| Coverage                  | Difference between required and actual shifts.                   |
| Coverage including wishes | Difference between required and actual shifts, including wishes. |
