---
title: The WFM cycle in injixo
description: Learn how injixo supports you along the WFM cycle
product_label:
  - essential
  - advanced
  - enterprise
  - classic
redirect_from:
  - /wfm-cycle/
redirect_reason: Updated filename on 27 July 2023
---

The goal of workforce management (WFM) is to optimize people deployment to meet business goals and service level targets. injixo helps you be more efficient throughout the different steps of the WFM cycle:

  {{ 1 | image: "WFM cycle: Forecasting, Planning, Scheduling, Intraday management, Analytics", '60%' }}

- Forecasting: Predict your short-, mid-, and long-term workload.
- Planning: Decide on recruitment, budget, and training strategies for the future.
- Scheduling: Create the best possible schedules for your people and your business demands.
- Intraday management: Adapt your schedules to unforeseen events in real time.
- Analytics: Understand, predict, and improve your business performance.

In this article you will find an overview of how injixo can support you in all stages of the WFM cycle. 
The very first step is to provide injixo with the data needed to generate a reliable forecast. To do so, you need to set up an integration with your Automatic Call Distribution (ACD) or Customer Relationship Management (CRM) systems.

New to workforce management? Learn about the key concepts and definitions in our [glossary](/glossary/overview/).

## 1. Forecasting

### Set up an integration

To predict the workload your organization will face at any point in the future, injixo needs access to your contact data and/or agent status data from external systems (e.g. ACD or CRM systems). To allow injixo to import and process this data, you need to {% link_new integrate your external systems with injixo | features/acd-integration/cloud/how-integrations-work.md %}. injixo offers native, vendor-specific integrations and universal integrations. Depending on the integration, injixo receives data every 15, 30, or 60 minutes (historical data import), or even within seconds (real-time data import). 

Once you have added an integration, it will automatically and continuously send data to injixo.
Imported contact data is stored in queues, which are always associated with a channel. You need the queues to create workloads on which to base your forecast.

You can configure your integrations in _Account > Integrations_{:.breadcrumbs}.

### Create a workload  

To use injixo Forecast, you first need to {% link_new create a workload | features/forecast/injixo-forecast/create-workloads.md | #create-workloads %} using the queues imported by your integration. Workloads contain all your historical data and related forecasts. To create a workload, your ACD must be correctly connected and imported queues must be available.

You can create workloads in _Forecast > Workloads_{:.breadcrumbs}. 

### Generate a forecast

{% link_new injixo Forecast | features/forecast/injixo-forecast/what-is-the-injixo-forecast.md %} combines your historical data with the best-suited algorithm to generate high-quality forecasts for up to 365 days.

Each new data import updates the generated forecast. You can also {% link_new add events | features/forecast/injixo-forecast/events-and-holidays.md %} that will influence your forecast.

### Calculate staff requirements

Once you have generated a forecast, you can {% link_new calculate the staff requirements | features/forecast/injixo-forecast/calculate-staff-requirements.md %}, i.e. the amount of people who need to be scheduled to cover the expected workload. You can use several {% link_new calculation methods | best-practices/requirement-scripts.md %} to calculate your staff requirements, which take into account factors like target service level, target answer time, shrinkage, etc. You can also write constant staff requirements without a forecast, if needed.

You can use your staff requirements during the scheduling process to create optimized schedules for specific time frames, planning units, and activities.

## 2. Planning

Use the data generated by injixo Forecast to compare your staff requirements with the actual resources available. The long-term forecast allows you to make better, timely decisions, e.g. on time-off requests, when to publish job postings or which training programs your people need to follow to be equipped for upcoming projects.

## 3. Scheduling

### Create schedules

Once you have calculated your staff requirements, injixo offers different {% link_new scheduling methods | features/scheduling/scheduling-methods.md %} that you can choose from or combine to best plan your people to meet your organization's needs.

In _Plan > Schedules_{:.breadcrumbs}, you can configure scheduling rules and constraints to comply with labor regulations, contractual agreements, and people's preferences.

injixo offers multiple scheduling functionalities, such as {% link_new optimized scheduling | features/scheduling/schedules/schedules-optimized-schedules.md %}, {% link_new notifying people of schedule changes | features/scheduling/schedules/schedules-notify-scheduling-changes.md %}, or {% link_new enabling people to swap shifts | features/scheduling/planning-periods/enable-employees-to-swap-shifts.md %} with their colleagues.

### Plan time off

{% link_new Time Off | features/scheduling/time-off/vacation-absences-management.md %} allows you to manage time-off balances and time-off requests for vacation, personal days, sick leave, and other types of absences. People can submit their time-off requests through {% link_new injixo Me | features/injixo-me/use-injixo-me/explore-injixo-me.md %}. You can approve or reject the requests based on staff requirements, people's availability, and any predefined rules or constraints.

Configure time off in _Plan > Time Off_{:.breadcrumbs}.

## 4. Intraday management

With {% link_new Intraday Adherence | features/intraday/adherence-intraday.md %}, you can compare the scheduled activities with the actual activities carried out and identify discrepancies. It displays detailed statistics and an adherence score.

This is also possible in real time with {% link_new Real-Time Adherence | features/intraday/real-time-adherence.md %}, which offers a comprehensive overview, filtering options, and an adjustable target adherence score.

With that information, you can make short-notice adjustments to the schedule to deal with unforeseen events and avoid being under- or overstaffed.

## 5. Analytics
 
injixo allows you to {% link_new create dashboards | features/monitoring/dashboards/manage-dashboards.md %} with graphics to better visualize different metrics, e.g. a comparison of staff requirements and actual coverage, or of forecasted vs. actual incoming calls for different time series.

injixo can also {% link_new generate multiple types of reports | features/reporting/standard-reports/creating-reports.md %} that help you keep the overview over relevant metrics, such as capacity according to contract type, time worked per planning unit or vacation overview.
